  2016年普通高等学校招生全国统一考试（上海卷）
		英语试卷
第I卷(共103分)
I. Listening Comprehension
Section A
Directions: In Section A, you will hear ten short conversations between two speakers. At the end of each conversation, a question will be asked about what was said. The conversations and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a conversation and the question about it, read the four possible answers on your paper, and decide which one is the best answer to the question you have heard.
1. A. It is satisfactory.             B. It is luxurious.
C. It is old-fashioned.           D. It is disappointing.
2. A. On August 5th.   B. On August 6th.   C. On August 7th.   D. On August 8th.
3. A. A waiter.   B. A butcher.   C. A porter.   D. A farmer.
4. A. In a theatre.   B. In a library.   C. In a booking office.   D. In a furniture store.
5. A. She expected to a better show.      B. She could hardly find her seat.  
C. She wasn’t interested in the show.   D. She didn’t get a favourable seat. 
6. A. The woman often eats out for breakfast.   B. The cafeteria serves good breakfast.
  C. The woman doesn’t have breakfast.       D. The cafeteria doesn’t serve breakfast.
7. A. Selling cucumbers.   B. Planting vegetables.  C. Cooking a meal.   D. Picking tomatoes.
8. A. The man should work hard.         B. The man should turn down the job offer.
  C. The man may have another chance.   D. The man can apply for the job again.
9. A. It is a hot and smoggy day.   B. There is a traffic jam on King Street.
  C. A vehicle is polluting the air.  D. The man is reading a report online.
10. A. Its ending is not good enough.   B. Its special effects are not satisfying.  
C. It deserves an award.          D. It is good except for the scary part.
Section B
  Directions: In Section B, you will hear two short passages, and you will be asked three questions on each of the passages. The passages will be read twice, but the questions will be spoken only once. When you hear a question, read the four possible answers on your paper and decide which one would be the best answer to the question you have heard.
Questions 11 through 13 are based on the following passage.  11. A. $1.  B. $2  C. $3  D. $ 52. 12. A. Pay the bills first.    B. Spend 2% of the salary on living expenses.    C. Deposit $1000 every month.    D. Put part of the money in a savings account. 13. A. Methods of saving money.    B. Saving money for family emergencies.    C. The importance of saving money.    D. Secrets of spending money wisely. Questions 14 through 16 are based on the following passage. 14. A. Free education.  B. A sum of money.   C. Donations from a local newspaper.   D. Gifts from many people. 15. A. Let students in before school.    B. Offer ice cream and coffee.    C. Introduce a bank into the campus.    D. Reduce the traffic jams around. 16. A. It lacks positive news.    B. It should grow into a big city.    C. It is a place worth living in.    D. It remains peaceful and quiet.
Section C
   Directions: In section C, you will hear two longer conversations. The conversations will be read twice. After you hear each conversation, you are required to fill in the numbered blanks with the information you have heard. Write your answers on your answer sheet.
Blanks 17 through 20 are based on the following conversation.
Complete the form.  Write ONE WORD for each answer. 
Class Diary (June 13-19)


Blank 21 through 24 are based on the following conversation.
Complete the form.  Write NO MORE THAN THREE WORDS for each answer.


II. Grammar and Vocabulary
Section A
   Directions: After reading the passages below, fill in the blanks to make the passages coherent and grammatically correct. For the blanks with a given word, fill in each blank with the proper form. of the given word; for the other blanks, use one word that best fits each blank.
(A)
Bags of Love
  Last year, I was assigned to work at an office near my mother’s house, so I stayed with her for a month. During that time, I helped out with the housework and contributed to the groceries.
  After less than a week, I started noticing that the groceries were running out pretty quickly — we were always suddenly out of something. (25)_______(wonder) how my mum could consume them so quickly, I began observing her daily routine for two weeks. To my surprise, I found that she would pack a paper bag full of canned goods and head out every morning at about nine. Eventually, I decided to follow her and (26)_______ happened truly amazed me. She was taking the food to the refugee camp, in (27)______ she distributed it to children.
  I asked around and found out that my mum was very well known in the area. The kids were very friendly with her and even looked up to her as if she were their own mother. Then it hit me —shy would she mot want to tell me about what she (28)_____(do)? Was she worried about how I would react or that I would stop (29)_____(buy) the groceries if I found out?
  When she got home, I told her about my discovery. (30)_____ she could react, I gave her a big hug and told her she didn’t need to keep it a secret (31)______ me. She told me that some of the children lived with an older lady in a shelter while others slept on the streets. For years, my mum has been helping out by giving them whatever food she could spare. I was so impressed by (32)_____ selfless she was. 学.科网
(B)
Stress: Good or Bad?
  Stress used to be an almost unknown word, but now that we are used to talking about it, I have found that people are beginning to get stressed about being stressed.
  In recent years, stress(33)______(regard) as a cause of a whole range of medical problems, from high blood pressure to mental illness. But like so many other things, it is only too much stress(34)______ does you harm. It is time you considered that if there were no stress in your life, you would achieve a little. If you are stuck at home with no stress, then your level of performance will be low. Up to a certain point, the more stress you are under, the (35)_____(good) your performance will be. Beyond a certain point, though , further stress will only lead to exhaustion, illness and finally a breakdown. You can tell when you are over the top and on the downward slope, by asking yourself (36)_______ number of questions. Do you, for instance, feel that too much is being expected of (37)______, and yet find it impossible to say no? Do you find yourself getting impatient of (38) _____(annoy) with people over unimportant things?... If the answer to all those questions is yes, you had better(39)______(control ) your stress, as you probably are under more stress than is good for you.
  To some extent you can control the amount of stress in your life. Doctors have worked out a chart showing how much stress is involved in various events. Getting married is 50, pregnancy 40, moving house 20, Christmas 12,etc. If the total stress in your life is over 150, you are twice as likely (40)_______ (get )ill.
Section B
   Directions: Complete the following passage by using the words in the box. Each word can only be used once. Note that there is one word more than you need.


Golden Rules of Good Design
  What makes good design? Over the years, designers and artists have been trying to   41         the essentials of good design. They have found that some sayings can help people understand the ideas of good design. There are four as follows.
Less is more. This saying is associated with the German-born architect Mies van der Rohe. In his Modernist view, beauty lies in simplicity and elegance, and the aim of the designer is to create solutions to problems through the most efficient means. Design should avoid unnecessary   42  
   More is not a bore. The American-born architect Robert Venturi concluded that if simplicity is done badly, the result is   43  design. Post-Modernist designers began to   44   with decoration and color again. Product design was heavily influenced by this view and can be seen in kitchen    45   such as ovens and kettles.
   Fitness for purpose. Successful product design takes into consideration a product’s function, purpose, shape, form, color, and so on. The most important result for the user is that the product does what is    46   . For example, think of a(n)   47   desk lamp. It needs to be constructed from materials that will stand the heat of the lamp and regular adjustments by the user. It also needs to be stable. Most importantly, it needs to    48   light where it is needed.
   From follows emotion. This phrase is associated with the German designer Hartmut Esslinger. He believes design must take into    49   the sensory side of our nature—sight, smell, touch and taste. These are as important as rational(理性的). When choosing everyday products such as toothpaste, we appreciate a cool-looking device that allows us to easily    50   the toothpaste onto our brush.
III. Reading Comprehension
Section A
    Directions: For each blank in the following passage there are four words or phrases marked A, B, C and D. Fill in each blank with the word or phrase that best fits the context.
In the 1960s, Douglas McGregor, one of the key thinkers in the art of management, developed the mow famous Theory X and Theory Y. Theory X is the idea that people instinctively   51   work and will do anything to avoid it. Theory Y is the view that everyone has the potential to find satisfaction in work.
In any case, despite so much evidence to the   52  , many managers still agree to Theory X. They believe,   53   , that their employees need constant supervision if they are to work effectively, or that decisions must be imposed from   54   without consultation. This, of course, makes for authoritarian (专制的) managers.
Different cultures have different ways of   55   people. Unlike authoritarian management, some cultures, particularly in Asia, are well known for the consultative nature of decision-making—all members of the department or work group are asked to   56   to this process. This is management by the collective opinion. Many western companies have tried to imitate such Asian ways of doing things, which are based on general   57  . Some experts say that women will become more effective managers than men because they have the power to reach common goals in a way that traditional   58   managers cannot.
A recent trend has been to encourage employees to use their own initiative, to make decisions on their own without   59   managers first. This empowerment (授权) has been part of the trend towards downsizing:   60   the number of management layers in companies. After de-layering in this way, a company may be   61   with just a top level of senior managers, front-line managers and employees with direct contact with the public. Empowerment takes the idea of delegation (委托) much further than has   62   been the case. Empowerment and delegation mean new forms of management control to   63   that the overall business plan is being followed, and that operations become more profitable under the new organization, rather than less.
Another trend is off-site or   64   management, where teams of people linked by e-mail and the Internet work on projects from their own houses. Project managers evaluate the   65   
of the team members in terms of what they produce for projects, rather than the amount of time they spend on them.
51. A. desire			B. seek				C. lose				D. dislike   
52. A. contrary			B. expectation			C. degree				D. extreme  
53. A. vice versa		B. for example			C. however			D. otherwise
54. A. outside			B. inside				C. below				D. above 
55. A. replacing		B. assessing			C. managing			D. encouraging  
56. A. refer			B. contribute			C. object				D. apply
57. A. agreement		B. practice			C. election			D. impression
58. A. bossy			B. experienced			C. western			D. male  
59. A. asking			B. training			C. warning			D. firing 
60. A. doubling		B. maintaining			C. reducing			D. estimating 
61. A. honored		    B. left				C. crowded			D. compared
62. A. economically	B. traditionally		C. inadequately		D. occasionally 
63. A. deny			B. admit				C. assume			D. ensure
64. A. virtual			B. ineffective			C. day-to-day			D. on-the-scene
65. A. opinion			B. risk				C. performance		D. attractiveness
Section B
Direction：Read the following three passages. Each passage is followed by several questions or unfinished statements. For each of them there are four choices marked A, B, C and D. Choose the one that fits best according to the information given in the passage you have just read.
(A)
   One early morning, I went into the living room to find my mother reading a thick book called Best Loved Poems to Read Again and Again. My interest was aroused only by the fact that the word “Poems” appeared in big, hot pink letters.
  “Is it good?” I asked her.
  “Yeah,” she answered. “There’s one I really like and you’ll like it, too.” I leaned forward.
  “‘Patty Poem,’” she read the title. Who is Patty? I wondered. The poem began:
She never puts her toys away,
                   Just leaves them scattered① where they lay,…      ①散乱的
  
The poem was just three short sections. The final one came quickly:
  
                     When she grows and gathers poise②,         ②稳重
                        I’ll miss her harum-scarum③ noise,         ③莽撞的
                        And look in vain④ for scattered toys.        ④徒劳地
And I’ll be sad.                 

  A terrible sorrow washed over me. Whoever Patty was, she was a mean girl. Then, the shock.
  “It’s you, honey,” My mother said sadly.
  To my mother, the poem revealed a parent’s affection when her child grows up and leaves. To me, the “she” in the poem was horror. It was my mama who would be sad. It was so terrible I burst out crying. 
  “What’s wrong?” my mother asked.
  “Oh Mama,” I cried. “I don’t want to grow up ever!”
  She smiled. “Honey, it’s okay. You’re not growing up anytime soon. And when you do, I’ll still love you, okay?”
  “Okay,” I was still weeping. My panic has gone. But I could not help thinking about that silly poem. After what seemed like a safe amount of time, I read the poem again and was confused. It all fit so well together, like a puzzle. The language was simple, so simple I could plainly understand its meaning, yet it was still beautiful. I was now fascinated by the idea of poetry, words that had the power to make or break a person’s world.
  I have since fallen in love with other poems, but “Patty Poem” remains my poem. After all, “Patty Poem” gave me my love for poetry not because it was the poem that lifted my spirits, but because it was the one that hurt me the most.
66. Why was the writer attracted by the book Best Loved Poems to Read Again and Again?
   A. It was a thick enough book.
   B. Something on its cover caught her eye.
   C. Her mother was reading it with interest.
   D. It has a meaningful title.
67. After her mother read the poem to her, the writer felt ______ at first.
   A. sad       B. excited      C. horrified      D. confused
68. The writer’s mother liked to read “Patty Poem” probably because______.
   A. it reflected her own childhood
   B. it was written in simple language
  C. it was composed by a famous poet
  D. it gave her a hint of what would happen
69. It can be concluded from the passage that“Patty Poem”leads the writer to _______.
  A. discover the power of poetry
  B. recognize her love for puzzles
  C. find her eagerness to grow up
  D. experience great homesickness
（B）
   Is there link between humans and climate change or not? This question was first studied in the early 1900s. Since then, many scientists have thought that our actions do make a difference. In 1997, the Kyoto Protocol explained our role in the Earth’s changing atmosphere and set international limits for gas emissions(排放) from 2008 to 2012. Some countries have decided to continue these reductions until 2020. More recently, the Paris Agreement, stuck by nearly 200 countries, also aims to limit global warming. But just now how much warmer it will get depends on how deeply countries cut carbon emissions.
  3.5℃
This is how much temperatures would rise by 2100 even if nations live up to the initial Paris promises to reduce carbon emissions; this rise could still put coastal cities under water and drive over half of all species to extinction.


2℃
To meet this minimum goal, the Agreement requires countries to tighten emissions targets every five years. Even this increase could sink some islands, worse drought(干旱) and drive a decline of up to a third in the number of species.


  1.5℃
This is the most ambitious goal for temperature rise set by the Paris Agreement, after a push by low-lying island nations like Kiribati, which say limiting temperature rise to 1.5℃ could save them from sinking.


  0.8℃
This is how much temperatures have risen since the industrial age began, putting us 40% of the way to the 2℃ point.


0℃
The baseline here is average global temperature before the start of the industrial age.




70. It can be concluded from paragraph 1 that _______.
A. the problem of global warming will have been quite solved by 2020
B. gas emissions have been effectively reduced in developed countries
C. the Paris Agreements is more influential than the Kyoto Protocol
D. humans have made continuous efforts to slow down global warming
71. If nations could only keep the initial promises of the Paris Agreement, what would happen by the year 2100?
A. The human population would increase by one third.
B. Little over 50% of all species would still exist.
C. Nations would not need to tighten their emissions targets.
D. The Agreement’s minimum goal would not be reached.
72. If those island nations not far above sea level are to survive, the maximum temperature rise, since the start of the industrial age, should be_______.
A. 0.8℃    B. 1.5℃
C. 2℃      D. 3.5℃
(C)
   Enough “meaningless drivel”. That’s the message from a group of members of the UK government who have been examining how social media firms like LinkedIn gather and use social media data.
   The House of Commons Science and Technology Committee’s report, released last week, has blamed firms for making people sign up to long incomprehensible legal contracts and calls for an international standard or kitemark (认证标记) to identify sites that have clear terms and conditions.
   “The term and conditions statement that we all carelessly agree to is meaningless drivel to anyone,” says Andrew Miller, the chair of the committee. Instead, he says, firms should provide a plain-English version of their terms. The simplified version would be checked by a third party and awarded a kitemark if it is an accurate reflection of the original.
   It is not yet clear who would administer the scheme, but the UK government is looking at introducing it on a voluntary basis. “we need to think through how we make that work in practice,” says Miller.
   Would we pay any more attention to a kitemark? “I think if you went and did the survey, people would like to think they would,” says Nigel Shadbolt at the University of Southampton, UK, who studies open data. “We do know people worry a lot about the inappropriate use of their information.” But what would happen in practice is another matter, he says.
  Other organisations such as banks ask customers to sign long contracts they may not read or understand, but Miller believes social media requires special attention because it is so new. “We still don’t know how significant the long-term impact is going to be of unwise things that kids put on social media that come back and bite them in 20 years’ time,” he says.
Shadbolt, who gave evidence to the committee, says the problem is that we don’t know how companies will use our data because their business models and uses of data are still evolving. Large collections of personal information have become valuable only recently, he says. 
   The shock and anger when a social media firm does something with data that people don’t expect, even if users have apparently permission, show that the current situation isn’t working. If properly administered, a kitemark on terms and conditions could help people know what exactly they are signing up to. Although they would still have to actually read them.
73. What does the phrase “ meaningless drivel” in paragraphs 1 and 3 refer to?
A. Legal contracts that social media firms make people sign up to.
B. Warnings from the UK government against unsafe websites.
C. Guidelines on how to use social media websites properly.
D. Insignificant data collected by social media firms.
74. It can be inferred from the passage that Nigel Shadbolt doubts whether _______.
A. social media firms would conduct a survey on the kitemark scheme
B. people would pay as much attention to a kitemark as they think
C. a kitemark scheme would be workable on a nationwide scale
D. the kitemark would help companies develop their business models
75. Andrew Miller thinks social media needs more attention than banks mainly because _______.
A. their users consist largely of kids under 20 years old
B. the language in their contracts is usually harder to understand
C. the information they collected could become more valuable in future
D. it remains unknown how users’ data will be taken advantage of
76. The writer advises users of social media to _______.
A. think carefully before posting anything onto such websites
B. read the terms and conditions even if there is a kitemark
C. take no further action if they can find a kitemark
D. avoid providing too much personal information
77. Which of the following is the best title of the passage?
A. Say no to social media?
B. New security rules in operation?
C. Accept without reading?
D. Administration matters!

Section C
 Directions: Read the passage carefully. Then answer the questions or complete the statements in the fewest possible words.
   Walking will be banned on escalators as part of a trail designed ti reduce congestion(拥堵) at some of the country’s busiest stations.
   In the first move of its kind, all travelers will be forced to stand on both sides of escalators on the London Underground as part of a plan to increase capacity(容量) at the height of the rush hour.
	A xix-month trial will be introduced at Holborn station from mid-April, eliminating the rule of standing on the right and walking on the left. The move, imitating a similar structure in Far eastern cities such as Hong Kong, is designed to increase the number of people using long escalators at the busiest times . it could be expanded across the Tube network in coming years.
   According to London Underground, only 40 percent of travelers walk the full length of long escalators, leaving the majority at the bottom as they wait to get on to the “standing “side.
   A three-week trial at Holborn last year found that the number of people using escalators at any time of could be raised by almost a third. Peter McNaught, operations director at London Underground, said: “It may not seem right that you can go quicker by standing still, but our experiments at Holborn have proved that it can be true. This new six-month trial will help us find out if we can influence customers to stand on both sides in the long term.”
   Holborn has one of the longest sets of escalators on the Underground network at 23.4 high. Tube bosses claim that capacity was limited because so few people wanted to walk up—meaning only one side was used at all times. Research has shown that it is more effective use of escalators over 18.5 to ban walking.
   The previous trial found that escalators at the station normally carried 2,500 people between 8:30am and 9:30am on a typical day, rising to 3,250 during the researching period.
In the new trial, which will be launched from April 18, one of three “up” escalators will be standing only, with a second banning walking at peak times. A third will remain a mix of walking and standing.
(Note: Answering the questions the questions or complete the statements in NO MORE THAN TEN WORDS.)
78. What is the existing problem with standing on the right and walking on the left? 
79. What did last year’s three-week trial at Holborn station prove?
80.The research suggests that walking should be forbidden on escalators that are at least _________ in height.
81. In the new trail, in addition to one escalator banning walking in rush hours, the other “up” escalators will be used for_________________.
第II卷(共47分)
Translation
Directions: Translate the following sentences into English, using the words given in the brackets.
1.我真希望自己的文章有朝一日能见报。（hope）

二十世纪末中国经济迅速发展。（witness）

为买一双运动鞋而通宵排队有意义吗？（point）

虽然当时我年幼，不理解这部电影的含义，但我记得我的家人都感动得落泪了。（too…to…）

5.我阿姨苦读四年之后获得了文凭，那一刻她欣喜万分。（The moment…）


II. Guided Writing
   Directions:  Write an English composition in 120–150 words according to the instructions given below in Chinese.
   假设你是中华中学学生姚平，最近参加了一项研究性学习调研，课题为“父母是否以子女为荣”。通过调研你校学生及其父母，结果发现双方对此问题的看法有差异（数据如图所示）。根据图表写一份报告，在报告中，你必须：
描述调研数据；
分析可能导致这一结果的原因。


上海英语参考答案
第I卷
第一大题第1至第10小题，每题1分；第11至第16小题，每题2分；第17题至第24题，每题1分。共30分。
1.D	2. B   	3.A 		4.B 		5.D 		6.C 		7.B 		8.C 		9.C 		10.A
11.C	12.D    13.A 	14.B 	15.A 	16.C 
17.Deadline		18. photos	19.stadium      20. Lunch
21.a(famous) judge        22.Asking for help 
23.Having a voice         24.Sharing (with others)
第二大题每小题1分。共26分。 25. Wondering    26. what  		27. which 	28. had done  	29. buying  
30. Before  		31. from  32. how  33. has been regarded  34. that  
35. better  		36. a  		37. you  		38. annoyed  			39. control 
 40. to get 41. D  42.E  43.J  44.G  45.C  46.H  47.B  48.F  49.A   50.K
第三大题第51至65小题，每题1分；第66至77小题，每题2分；第78至81小题，每题2分。共47分。 51. D   	52. A   	53. B   	54. D   	55. C   	56. B   	57. A   	58. D   	59. A   	60. C  61. B   	62. B   	63. D   	64. A   	65. C   	66. B  	 67. A   	68. D   	69. A   	70. D 71. D   	72. B   	73. A   	74. B   	75. D  	 76. B   	77. C
第II卷
第一大题第1至3小题，每题4分；第4至5小题，每题5分。共22分。 1. I really hope that my article will be published in a newspaper someday.
2. The late twentieth century witnessed the rapid development of China’s economy.
3. What is the point of/in lining up for the whole night just to buy a pair of sports shoes? / Is there  any point (in) lining up for the whole night just to buy a pair of sports shoes?
4. Although I was then too young to understand the meaning of the film, I remember my family 
were moved to tears.
5. The moment my aunt gained her diploma after four years of hard work, she was filled with joy.